The major difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT in Docker lies in how they handle command-line arguments and whether they can be overridden.

CMD:

The CMD instruction specifies the default command and/or parameters that are used when running a container.
It can be overridden by passing command-line arguments to the docker run command.
Only the last CMD instruction in the Dockerfile is effective.
If CMD is specified with an executable, it can be replaced with a different executable at runtime.
Example: CMD ["python", "app.py", "--option", "value"]


ENTRYPOINT:

The ENTRYPOINT instruction specifies the executable that will be run when a container is started.
It provides a fixed command that cannot be easily overridden.
Command-line arguments provided during the docker run command are appended to the ENTRYPOINT command.
Multiple ENTRYPOINT instructions can be specified, but only the last one takes effect.
If ENTRYPOINT is specified with an executable, it cannot be easily replaced at runtime.
Example: ENTRYPOINT ["python", "app.py"]


Here's an example to illustrate the difference:

Let's assume the Dockerfile contains the following CMD and ENTRYPOINT instructions:


CMD ["python", "app.py", "--mode", "default"]
ENTRYPOINT ["echo", "Hello,"]


If you run the container without specifying any additional arguments:

docker run myapp


With CMD, the container will execute the app.py script in the default mode specified in the CMD instruction.

With ENTRYPOINT, the container will print "Hello," as specified in the ENTRYPOINT instruction.

Now, if you run the container and provide additional arguments:

docker run myapp --mode custom


With CMD, the additional --mode custom argument will override the default mode specified in the CMD instruction. The container will execute the app.py script in the custom mode.

With ENTRYPOINT, the additional --mode custom argument will be appended to the ENTRYPOINT command. The container will print "Hello," and the additional argument will be passed along.

